a whole lot of people wrote in to tell
me how heartless and vicious and cruel I
was when I made a video what seems like
many months ago was probably two weeks
ago drawing attention to the potential
possibility that my fellow vegan
youtuber Jaco wacko Vigano would now be
dumped by his girlfriend given that he's
no longer vegan given that a big part of
what brought them together as a couple I
made them stay together as a couple was
veganism vegan activism and I think the
chorus of opinion that rose up against
me was no no no she should stay with him
she should be loving and nurturing and
caring because of his mental health and
there's this appealing illusion that I
here want to lash out against in the
youtube video forum there's this
appealing illusion that your mental
health is something other than who you
are if you're a liar if you tell lies to
people it's on you it's your
responsibility no one is accountable but
you more than that that's who you are
okay there's no distinction between what
you do and what you are alright with
time our actions form our character but
they also demonstrate our character in a
very real sense they are our character
there's nothing else we can refer to
there's no soul there's no
transcendental impalpable self that's
exterior too and can be contrasted to
the some of our actions our thoughts our
decisions so on and so forth right so
the man who tells lies is a liar why is
it that when we start using medical
sounding terminology that we start to
absolve people of the responsibility for
the decisions they make for the action
when we say oh he's a compulsive liar he
has a mania he has a phobia he has a
mental health problem ok your physical
health is not something other than your
body these are two ways of describing
one in the same thing your body is not
something other than you then who you
really are your mental health is not
something other than your character it's
not an excuse for your behavior
it's just a way of describing your
behavior your mental health your sanity
or insanity it's on you you're
responsible you're accountable but more
than this deeper than this that's who
you are in a very real sense from my
perspective as a nihilistic atheist you
have no soul there's neither something
magical hidden inside you nor is there
something up in the sky hovering above
you that remains untouched and unshaped
by your decisions your actions your
inclinations your behavior on the
contrary in a sense you're less than the
sum of these parts so yeah in looking at
the strange and sad case of this man who
knew all the facts and neukkimi are on
YouTube and even perform them for an
audience he knew all the reasons to be
vegan
he knew the reasons even while the
counter arguments against veganism were
immoral and internally contradictory and
were and should be discarded he
knew it all and he at least parroted it
he at least echoed it even if he didn't
really think it through or understand it
but he had all the facts and
disposal and he made the decision to
reject all this and not just go back to
eating meat but to go back to declaring
and propounding the very excuses for
eating meat that he rejected before
excuses that I think he's familiar with
from his own parents from his
grandparents yes if that's your man you
should dump him if that's your man you
should break up with them I'd like to
make a really strange cultural reference
here but I think millions of people
around the world know it I mean some
things are well known like Batman and
spider-man but you know there's a
there's a real cultural phenomenon now
that's been covered on every news
station I think they've been documentary
films made about it which is the brides
of Isis the women who fell in love with
men who went away to fight for Isis for
the Islamic state for the Caliphate
women who in some cases fell in love
with and got married to a secular man
sometimes even an atheist man but in
some cases a man who was a very moderate
Muslim or didn't have much interest in
Islam and they stayed with that man as
he became radicalized as he became a
fundamentalist as he regained his faith
or for the first time discovered faith
as he took the steps toward becoming a
terrorist or becoming part of a rebel
army wherever you want to put it okay
it's really easy to imagine that the
person you love is something other than
the some of the decisions they've made
but the decisions you make that's who
you are
and worse as time goes on most of us our
imaginations become narrower and
narrower we become creatures of habit we
no longer challenge our assumptions
decisions we were made when we were
teenagers tend to sheep people still
listen to the same music in their 40s
that they listen to they were teenagers
people eat this
foods and they don't try new foods they
don't try any music yes these things may
seem trivial but there are other
decisions we make that are much less
trivial where without regarding the
decisions we've made in the past as
authoritative they nevertheless tend to
take on a kind of authority in our life
in the narrowing of the middle-aged mind
if I may put it that way okay the man
you love is nothing more than the
decisions he makes in a very scary sense
he's something less because he's
unlikely to ever go back and re-examine
the assumptions that led him to make
those decisions that he's now
comfortable with that he's now living
within those bounds if you fell in love
with someone and then they decided to
convert to Islam later where they
decided to support Isis later dumped him
don't tell yourself this isn't who he
really is I know who we realize I know
the man I feel no you know a man that
exists in your mind's eye in your
imagination what you know is a dream
what you know is something unreal of
your own invention if you fell in love
with someone because he was a vegan
activist don't make the accept that
don't make the excuse oh it's just his
mental health his mental health is not
something other than who he really is